--terms of testifying. So part of what we will do today, is for you all to testify to what you know, about Furious Flower, how many ways you've entered this whole phenomenon  that's
called Furious Flower. So that's how we're going to involve all the voices in this room.
And the subtext, I think, for this workshop for this seminar is... you will teach what you know. Isn't that the, isn't that the reason we are doing this legacy? I started calling this this legacy
seminar.
So, I really believe that you teach what you know. And when I came to James Madison University, in 1985, I was the first African American to be hired in the department.
Now, I didn't learn until later that there was great resentment about my hiring. And Azadi, you had a, a laugh of recognition there. It's like you had a little white handkerchief and you said>I know
what you talkin about.
And that's how it was, for so many Black women and men coming into academe in the late '70s and '80s. In fact, I was sharing with Sonia and Azadi and Becky at lunch,
that when my first departmental meeting, and I'd been I was at JMU for just a week, maybe two weeks at the most. I go into the meeting, and I get there early, so that people will know that I'm going
to be a functioning part of this department.
So I come in and take my seat in the second to the last row. And in comes this man, my colleagues, smelling of cigarette smoke, and bourbon. He just happened to be the Southern Literature specialist.
I'll never forget his name, David Hallman. I'll put it out there. I'll put it out there, because, you know, let's call a spade a spade. So I'm sitting there waiting for the meeting to begin. He comes
in trailing faculty members.
And he comes and sits behind me. And he says to them, "come on back here to the Jim Crow section."
Say What year it was again.
That was 1985 DaMaris. Come on back in the Jim Crow section. So I, I was there as a Commonwealth visiting professor, my husband and I were deciding whether we were going to stay. So
we had a year to decide and I'm now here for only two weeks. My husband's having a great experience.
So I bit my lip and I said, oh my god, what have I come into? ...Well... the meeting was about to begin. And other people were coming in, just as you all were just coming in. And then he said to them,
Oh, no he didn't.
So no, that's documented in this book, Shaping Memories. Because I wanted people to understand what we had to go through as women in academe.
So that was my first week at James Madison University. Now, obviously, things have gotten better. But that was my introduction, and why, why was this man allowed to do this? And do you know, how do
you think people responded? I didn't think I was gonna get off on this, but how do you think people responded?
They were quiet.
They were quiet. No one said a word.
Cause you didn't, thats right.
What? No one said a word. Well, when he said that, to me, my stomach started churning. And I said, if I don't respond immediately to this, that I did not hold my head up in this
faculty or at this school.
So I cornered him, I stood up, the head of the department, nobody said a thing. And I said to him... If you say anything like that to me again, in my presence, you're not only gonna need a lawyer,
you're gonna need a doctor.
And I meant it. Because I was really, really sure that it was going to be physical. If I had to deal with this again. And the thing that made me angry, I have been, since I've been a teacher, and I
have been a teacher since 1971, I have been a fierce advocate for my students.
And I thought, if this man who is honored by his colleagues, has this kind of latitude with a colleague, someone who's a peer, what is he doing inside the classroom with students? So that, it made me
fighting, fighting mad.
And Becky asked, Who are the Wintergreen Women? Well, the reason that we started, that I started Wintergreen, was I knew that if I faced that, coming up, into James Madison University, that Nikki
Giovanni, even though certainly her reputation far exceeded mine,
but human nature is human nature, she was going to Virginia Tech. So I said, let me gather around her some women who will have her back for the few years, I thought she might be there two years. For
the few years that she will be at Virginia Tech.
So I call Darrell Dance. Your mentor. I called, and Darrell Dance called Opal Moore.
The dimple's still there.
Let's hear Ethelbert.
A little Ethelbert? Where's Ethelbert?
To the right there
anyone have a knowledge of that?
[
inaudible]... to celebrate Gwen Brooks?
Just like we said today, Jo.
Somebody Blew up America. So the students, of course, I think it was, for them to do that. But what was interesting, and what I think, is powerful in the story is that Joanne, of